Signature specification (#102)
notaryproject/notaryproject: signature-specification.md

* **`exp`**(*number*): This OPTIONAL property contains the expiration time on or after which the signature must not be considered valid. 

To leverage JWS claims validation functionality already provided by libraries, we have defined `iat`, `exp` as top-level nodes.

**ProtectedHeaders**:
Notary v2 supports only three protected headers: alg, cty, and crit.
```json
{
   "alg": "RS256",
   "cty": "application/vnd.cncf.notary.v2.jws.v1",
   "crit":["cty"]
}
```
* **`alg`**(*string*): This REQUIRED property defines which algorithm was used to generate the signature. JWS needs an algorithm(alg) to be present in the header, so we have added it as a protected header.
* **`cty`**(*string*): The REQUIRED property content-type(cty) is used to declare the media type of the secured content(the payload). This will be used to version different variations of JWS signature. The supported value is `application/vnd.cncf.notary.v2.jws.v1`.
* **`crit`**(*array of strings*): This REQUIRED property lists the headers that implementation MUST understand and process. The value MUST be `["cty"]`.

**UnprotectedHeaders**:
Notary v2 supports only two unprotected headers: timestamp and x5c.
```
{

>    "timestamp": "<Base64Url(TimeStampToken)>",

Reviewer: Timestamp should just be `Base64` encoded, not `Base64URL` encoded.

Reviewer 2: @priteshbandi, does this need to change?

Author: That was a miss, updated

   "x5c": ["<Base64(DER(leafCert))>", "<Base64(DER(intermediateCACert))>", "<Base64(DER(rootCert))>"]
}
```
* **`timestamp`**(*string*): This OPTIONAL property is used to store time stamp token. Only [RFC3161]([rfc3161](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3161#section-2.4.2)) compliant TimeStampToken are supported.

> * **`x5c`**(*array of strings*): This REQUIRED property contains the list of X.509 certificate or certificate chain([RFC5280](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5280)) corresponding to the key used to digitally sign the JWS.

Reviewer: You may mention:

> The certificate containing the public key corresponding to the key used to digitally sign the JWS MUST be the first certificate.

as stated in [RFC 7515 4.1.6](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7515#section-4.1.6).

Author: Added

**Signature**:
In JWS signature is calculated by combining JWSPayload and protected headers. The process is described below:
1. Compute the Base64Url value of ProtectedHeaders.
2. Compute the Base64Url value of JWSPayload.
3. Build message to be signed by concatenating the values generated in step 1 and step 2 using '.'
`ASCII(BASE64URL(UTF8(ProtectedHeaders)) ‘.’ BASE64URL(JWSPayload))`
4. Compute the signature on the message constructed in the previous step by using the signature algorithm defined in the corresponding header element: alg.
5. Compute the Base64Url value of the signature produced in the previous step. This is the value of the signature property used in the signature envelope.

**Signature Envelope**:
The final signature envelope comprises of Claims, ProtectedHeaders, UnprotectedHeaders, and signature.

Since Notary v2 restricts one signature per signature envelope, the compliant signature envelope MUST be in flattened JWS JSON format.
```json
{
   "payload": "<Base64Url(JWSPayload)>",
   "protected": "<Base64Url(ProtectedHeaders)>",
   "header": {

>      "timestamp": "<Base64Url(TimeStampToken)>",

Reviewer: `base64` instead of `base64url` for `timestamp`.

Author: That was a miss, updated

     "x5c": ["<Base64(DER(leafCert))>", "<Base64(DER(intermediateCACert))>", "<Base64(DER(rootCert))>"]
   },
   "signature": "Base64Url( sign( ASCII( <Base64Url(ProtectedHeader)>.<Base64Url(JWSPayload)> )))"  
}
```

**Implementation Constraints**
Notary v2 implementation MUST enforce the following constraints on signature generation and verification:
1. `alg` header value MUST NOT be `none` or any symmetric-key algorithm such as `HMAC`.
2. `alg` header value MUST be same as that of signature algorithm identified using signing certificate's public key algorithm and size.
3. `alg` header values for various signature algorithms:
   | Signature Algorithm    | "alg" Param Value |
   | --------    | -------- |

>    | ECDSA on secp256r1 with SHA-256 | ES256     |

Reviewer: Can we have a more friendly name for `secp256r1` from SECG? like `P-256` from NIST?

Also, we need to provide a reference for readers. [RFC 8422 Appendix A](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8422#appendix-A) is a good one.

Author: Not all algos and curves are in NIST and that's the reason refrained from using NIST curves. 
Added reference to RFC 8422 Appendix A  for discovery.

>    | ECDSA on secp256r1 with SHA-512 | ES256     |

Reviewer: This should be `ES512`, shouldn't it?

Author: Yep...updated

   | RSASSA-PSS with SHA-256   | PS256     |

>    | RSASSA-PSS with SHA-512   | PS512     |

Reviewer: Need to format the table.

>    | RSASSA-PSS with SHA-512   | PS512     |

Reviewer: Missing `ES384` and `PS384`.

Author: Added

4. Signing certificate MUST be a valid codesigning certificate.
5. Only JWS JSON flattened format is supported. See 'Signature Envelope' section.

## Signature Algorithms
The implementation MUST support the following set of algorithms:
1. RSASSA-PSS with SHA-256
1. RSASSA-PSS with SHA-384
1. RSASSA-PSS with SHA-512
1. ECDSA on secp256r1 with SHA-256
1. ECDSA on secp384r1 with SHA-384
1. ECDSA on secp256r1 with SHA-512

### Algorithm Selection
The signing certificate's public key algorithm and size MUST be used to determine the signature algorithm.

|Public Key Algorithm| Key Size (bits)   | Signature Algorithm  |
| -------- | --------    | -------- |
|RSA| 2048 | RSASSA-PSS with SHA-256     |
|RSA| 3072 | RSASSA-PSS with SHA-384     |
|RSA| 4096 | RSASSA-PSS with SHA-512     |
|ECDSA| 256   | ECDSA on secp256r1 with SHA-256     |
|ECDSA| 384   | ECDSA on secp384r1 with SHA-384     |

> |ECDSA| 512   | ECDSA on secp521r1 with SHA-512     |

Reviewer: Table format

> |ECDSA| 512   | ECDSA on secp521r1 with SHA-512     |

Reviewer: Pedantically, `ECDSA` is not a public key algorithm where `DSA` stands for **Digital Signature Algorithm**. Therefore, we should use `EC` here for **Elliptic Curve** keys.

# Signature Specification

This document describes how Notary v2 signatures are created and stored.

> The document consists of following sections:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The document has following sections:
```

* **[Storage](#storage)**: Describes how signatures are stored in OCI registry
* **[Signature Envelope](#signature-envelope)**: Describes how signatures are created.

## Storage
This section describes how Notary v2 signatures are stored in the OCI Distribution conformant registry.

> Notary v2 uses [ORAS artifact manifest](https://github.com/oras-project/artifacts-spec/blob/main/artifact-manifest.md) to store the signature in the repository. The manifest that contains the signature is of type `application/vnd.cncf.oras.artifact.manifest.v1+json`. The signature artifact manifest consists of a signature type, a reference to the manifest of the artifact being signed, a blob referencing to the signature, and a collection of annotations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Notary v2 uses [ORAS artifact manifest](https://github.com/oras-project/artifacts-spec/blob/main/artifact-manifest.md) to store the signature in the repository. The media type of the signature manifest is `application/vnd.cncf.oras.artifact.manifest.v1+json`. The signature manifest has an artifact type which specifies it's a Notary V2 signature, a reference to the manifest of the artifact being signed, a blob referencing the signature, and a collection of annotations.
```

![Signature storage inside registry](media/signature-specification.svg)

> - **`artifactType`**(*string*): This REQUIRED property references the Notary version of the signature: `application/vnd.cncf.notary.v2`.

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't this be more specific artifact type like `application/vnd.cncf.notary.v2.signature`

Author: yeah to support multiple `artifactType` for notary it makes sense to add `.signature` suffix.

- **`blobs`**(*array of objects*): This REQUIRED property contains collection of only one [artifact descriptor](https://github.com/oras-project/artifacts-spec/blob/main/descriptor.md) referencing signature envelope.
   - **`mediaType`**(*string*): This REQUIRED property contains media type of signature envelope blob. The supported value is `application/jose+json`
- **`subject`**(*descriptor*): A REQUIRED artifact descriptor referencing the signed manifest, including, but not limited to image manifest, image index, oras-artifact manifest.
- **`annotations`**(*string-string map*): This OPTIONAL property contains arbitrary metadata for the artifact manifest. It can be used to store information about the signature.
```json
{

>  "artifactType": "application/vnd.cncf.notary.v2",

Reviewer 3: We can update this if we agree on the artifactType

## Signature Envelope
The Signature Envelope is a standard data structure for creating a signed message. A signature envelope consists of the following components:
* Payload(m): The data that is integrity protected - e.g. descriptor of the artifact being signed.
* Signed attributes(v): The signature metadata that is integrity protected - e.g. signature expiration time, signing time, etc.
* Unsigned attributes(u): This OPTIONAL property represents signature metadata that is not integrity protected - e.g. timestamp, certificates, etc.
* Cryptographic signatures(s): The digital signatures computed on payload and signed attributes.

A signature envelope is `e = {m, v, u, s}` where `s` is signature.

> Notary v2 supports [JWS JSON Serialization](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7515) as signature envelope format with some additional constraints but is extensible to support any other signature envelope format.

Reviewer 3: I'd add a line saying support for additional signatures in Notation lib requires updates to Notation lib.

### Payload
Notary v2 requires Payload to be the [descriptor](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/master/descriptor.md#properties) of the subject manifest that is being signed.
1. Descriptor MUST contain `mediaType`, `digest`, `size` fields.
2. Descriptor MAY contain `annotations`. The `annotations` are being used to store signed attributes.
3. Descriptor MAY contain `artifactType` field for artifact manifests, or the `config.mediaType` for `oci.image` based manifests.

Examples:
```json
{
   "mediaType": "application/vnd.oci.image.manifest.v1+json",
   "digest": "sha256:73c803930ea3ba1e54bc25c2bdc53edd0284c62ed651fe7b00369da519a3c333",
   "size": 16724
}
```

```json
{
   "mediaType": "sbom/example",
   "digest": "sha256:9834876dcfb05cb167a5c24953eba58c4ac89b1adf57f28f2f9d09af107ee8f0",
   "size": 32654

> }

Reviewer 3: Will this also have an artifactType as described in previous section.

Author: it can have it but its optional

Unless explicitly specified as OPTIONAL, all fields are required. Also, there shouldn’t be any additional fields other than ones specified in JWSPayload, ProtectedHeader, and UnprotectedHeader.

**JWSPayload a.k.a. Claims**:
Notary v2 is using one private claim(notary) and two public claims(iat and exp). An example of the claim is described below
```json
{
   "notary": {  
       "subject": {
           "mediaType": "application/vnd.oci.image.manifest.v1+json",
           "digest": "sha256:73c803930ea3ba1e54bc25c2bdc53edd0284c62ed651fe7b00369da519a3c333",
           "size": 16724,
           "annotations": {
              "key1": "value1",
              "key2": "value2",
               ...
           }
       }
   },
   "iat": 1234567891000,
   "exp": 1234567891011
}
```
The payload contains the subject manifest and other attributes that have to be integrity protected.

* **`notary`**(*string-string map*): This is a REQUIRED top-level node and a private claim encapsulating the notary v2 data.

> * **`subject`**(*descriptor*): A REQUIRED manifest that needs to be integrity protected.

Reviewer 3: Do you need to document this again, it was already covered in Payload section, with artifactType etc. being optional.

  * **`annotations`**(*string-string map*): This OPTIONAL property contains signed attributes and MUST follow the [annotation rules](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/main/annotations.md#rules). The prefix `org.opencontainers.notary` is reserved for use in Notary v2 and MUST NOT be used outside this specification.
* **`iat`**(*number*): The REQUIRED property Issued-at(iat) identifies the time at which the signature was issued.
* **`exp`**(*number*): This OPTIONAL property contains the expiration time on or after which the signature must not be considered valid. 

To leverage JWS claims validation functionality already provided by libraries, we have defined `iat`, `exp` as top-level nodes.

**ProtectedHeaders**:
Notary v2 supports only three protected headers: alg, cty, and crit.
```json
{
   "alg": "RS256",
   "cty": "application/vnd.cncf.notary.v2.jws.v1",
   "crit":["cty"]
}
```
* **`alg`**(*string*): This REQUIRED property defines which algorithm was used to generate the signature. JWS needs an algorithm(alg) to be present in the header, so we have added it as a protected header.

> * **`cty`**(*string*): The REQUIRED property content-type(cty) is used to declare the media type of the secured content(the payload). This will be used to version different variotions of JWS signature. The supported value is `application/vnd.cncf.notary.v2.jws.v0`.

Reviewer 3: The version is different than the example.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **`cty`**(*string*): The REQUIRED property content-type(cty) is used to declare the media type of the secured content(the payload). This will be used to version different variations of JWS signature. The supported value is `application/vnd.cncf.notary.v2.jws.v0`.
```

# Signature Specification

This document describes how Notary v2 signatures are created and stored.
The document consists of following sections:
* **[Storage](#storage)**: Describes how signatures are stored in OCI registry
* **[Signature Envelope](#signature-envelope)**: Describes how signatures are created.

## Storage
This section describes how Notary v2 signatures are stored in the OCI Distribution conformant registry.
Notary v2 uses [ORAS artifact manifest](https://github.com/oras-project/artifacts-spec/blob/main/artifact-manifest.md) to store the signature in the repository. The signature artifact manifest consists of a signature type, a reference to the manifest of the artifact being signed, a blob referencing to the signature, and a collection of annotations.

> <img src="media/signature-specification.jpg" width="550" height="450">

Reviewer 2: A picture helps with clarity. 
A few clarifications:
- The manifest that contains the signature is of type `application/vnd.cncf.oras.artifact.manifest.v1+json`
- The top box suggests it can only sign an OCI image manifest. I'd suggest changing this to simply be "Manifest". See feedback below for the `subject` property.
- Suggest taking the top box within the two lower boxes and make them a header on the box. I was reading it as the content, not the description of the content.

Author: incorporated feedback

> - **`artifactType`**: Used to identify the Notary signature artifact. The supported value is `application/vnd.cncf.notary.v2`.

Reviewer 2: This REQUIRED property references the Notary version of the signature: `application/vnd.cncf.notary.v2`

Author: incorporated feedback

- **`blobs`**: A collection consisting of only one [artifact descriptor](https://github.com/oras-project/artifacts-spec/blob/main/descriptor.md) that refers to a signature envelope.
   - **`mediaType`**: Defines the media type of signature envelope blob. The supported value is `application/jose+json`

> - **`subject`**: An artifact descriptor referencing to image manifest that is signed.

Reviewer 2: The `subject`, by which the signature is associated with can be any manifest type which means Notary v2 can sign any artifact from container images to anything else that follows the conventions in [OCI Artifacts authors guidance](https://github.com/opencontainers/artifacts/blob/master/artifact-authors.md), a multi-arch manifest of images, or other artifacts that use the ORAS Artifact manifest for things like SBoMs, scan results and other reference types

Suggest: A REQUIRED [artifact descriptor](https://github.com/oras-project/artifacts-spec/blob/main/descriptor.md) referencing the signed manifest, including, but not limited to ([oci image manifest](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/main/manifest.md), [oci image index](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/main/image-index.md), [oras-artifact manifest](https://github.com/oras-project/artifacts-spec/blob/main/artifact-manifest.md)).

- **`annotations`**: This OPTIONAL property contains arbitrary metadata for the artifact manifest. It can be used to store information about the signature.
```json
{
 "artifactType": "application/vnd.cncf.notary.v2",
 "blobs": [
   {
     "mediaType": "application/jose+json",
     "digest": "sha256:9834876dcfb05cb167a5c24953eba58c4ac89b1adf57f28f2f9d09af107ee8f0",
     "size": 32654
   }
 ],
 "subject": {
   "mediaType": "application/vnd.oci.image.manifest.v1+json",
   "digest": "sha256:73c803930ea3ba1e54bc25c2bdc53edd0284c62ed651fe7b00369da519a3c333",
   "size": 16724
 },
 "annotations": {
   "org.cncf.notary.signature.subject": "wabbit-networks.io"
 }
}
```

### Signature Discovery

> The client should be able to discover all the signatures belonging to an artifact(such as image manifest) by using [ORAS Manifest Referrers API](https://github.com/oras-project/artifacts-spec/blob/main/manifest-referrers-api.md). ORAS Manifest Referrers API returns a paginated list of all artifacts belonging to a target artifact(such as image manifest). The implementation can filter Notary signature artifacts by either using ORAS Manifest Referrers API or using custom logic on the client. Each Notary signature artifact refers to a signature envelope blob.  

Reviewer 2: > (such as image manifest)

( such as container images, sboms)

## Signature Envelope
The Signature Envelope is a standard data structure for creating a signed message. A signature envelope consists of the following components:

> * Payload(m): The data that is integrity protected - e.g. container image descriptor.

Reviewer 2: > e.g. container image descriptor

descriptor of the artifact being signed

* Signed attributes(v): The signature metadata that is integrity protected - e.g. signature expiration time, signing time, etc.
* Unsigned attributes(u): This OPTIONAL property represents signature metadata that is not integrity protected - e.g. timestamp, certificates, etc.
* Cryptographic signatures(s): The digital signatures computed on payload and signed attributes.

A signature envelope is `e = {m, v, u, s}` where `s` is signature.

Notary v2 supports [JWS JSON Serialization](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7515) as signature envelope format with some additional constraints but is extensible to support any other signature envelope format.

### Payload

> Notary v2 requires Payload to be the [descriptor](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/master/descriptor.md#properties) of the target manifest that is being signed.  

Reviewer 2: > of the target manifest that is being signed.  

of the `subject` manifest that is being signed.

1. Descriptor MUST contain `mediaType`, `digest`, `size` fields.
1. Descriptor MAY contain `artifactType` field for artifact manifests, or the `config.mediaType` for `oci.image` based manifests or annotations.
```json
{
   "mediaType": "application/vnd.oci.image.manifest.v1+json",
   "digest": "sha256:73c803930ea3ba1e54bc25c2bdc53edd0284c62ed651fe7b00369da519a3c333",
   "size": 16724
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: Suggest adding an example where artifactType would be added
```json
{
   "mediaType": "sbom/example",
   "digest": "sha256:e6688e911f15729983816cb784a4ae88c7405593c30bc88f6216e24c3363bf26",
   "size": 837
}
```

* **Timestamp**:  The time stamp token generated for a given signature. Only [RFC3161](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3161#section-2.4.2) compliant TimeStampToken are supported. This is an OPTIONAL attribute.

### Supported Signature Envelopes
#### JWS JSON Serialization
In JWS JSON Serialization([RFC7515](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7515)), data is stored as either claims or headers(protected and unprotected).  
Notary v2 uses JWS JSON Serialization for the signature envelope with some additional constraints on the structure of claims and headers.

Unless explicitly specified as OPTIONAL, all fields are mandatory. Also, there shouldn’t be any additional fields other than ones specified in JWSPayload, ProtectedHeader, and UnprotectedHeader.

**JWSPayload a.k.a. Claims**:
Notary v2 is using one private claim(notary) and two public claims(iat and exp). An example of the claim is described below
```json
{
   "notary": {  
       "subject": {
           "mediaType": "application/vnd.oci.image.manifest.v1+json",
           "digest": "sha256:73c803930ea3ba1e54bc25c2bdc53edd0284c62ed651fe7b00369da519a3c333",
           "size": 16724
       },

>        "attributes": {

Reviewer 4: The attributes could be compressed into annotations on the descriptor, and we could remove an extra layer in this payload. That would have the advantage of passing those annotations through to anything using the descriptor downstream.

Author: incorporated feedback...removed attributes and used annotations for this.

1. Compute the base64url value of ProtectedHeaders.
2. Compute the base64url value of JWSPayload.
3. Build message to be signed by concatenating the values generated in step 1 and step 2 using '.'
`ASCII(BASE64URL(UTF8(ProtectedHeaders)) ‘.’ BASE64URL(JWSPayload))`
4. Compute the signature on the message constructed in the previous step by using the signature algorithm defined in the corresponding header element: alg.
5. Compute the base64url value of the signature produced in the previous step. This is the value of the signature property used in the signature envelope.

**Signature Envelope**:
The final signature envelope comprises of Claims, ProtectedHeaders, UnprotectedHeaders, and signature.
```json
{
   "payload": "<Base64Url(JWSPayload)>",
   "signatures": [
       {
           "protected": "<Base64Url(ProtectedHeaders)>",
           "header": {
               "timestamp": "<Base64Url(TimeStampToken)>",
               "x5c": ["<Base64(DER(leafCert))>", "<Base64(DER(intermediateCACert))>", "<Base64(DER(rootCert))>"]
           },
           "signature": "Base64Url( sign( ASCII( <Base64Url(JWSPayload)>.<Base64Url(ProtectedHeader)> )))"  
       }
   ]
}
```

> If a JWS contains only one signature as above, the JWS can be flattened as

Reviewer 4: Are there any scenarios where multiple signatures would be pushed together, rather than separate artifacts?

Author: As of now we don't have scenario for multiple signature. removed JWS JSON format that supports multiple signature i.e. we only support flattened JWS JSON format.

# Signature Specification

This document describes how Notary v2 signatures are created and stored.
The document consists of following sections:
* **[Storage](#storage)**: Describes how signatures are stored in OCI registry
* **[Signature Envelope](#signature-envelope)**: Describes how signatures are created.

## Storage
This section describes how Notary v2 signatures are stored in the OCI Distribution conformant registry.
Notary v2 uses [ORAS artifact manifest](https://github.com/oras-project/artifacts-spec/blob/main/artifact-manifest.md) to store the signature in the repository. The signature artifact manifest consists of a signature type, a reference to the manifest of the artifact being signed, a blob referencing to the signature, and a collection of annotations.

> -<img src="media/signature-specification.jpg" width="550" height="450">

Reviewer: Replace the HTML tag with a Markdown tag for the image.

Author: Github won't recognize the syntax of [](.. =400) or [](... =400px), so to resize the image I've to use the `<img/>` syntax.

- **`artifactType`**: Used to identify the Notary signature artifact. The supported value is `application/vnd.cncf.notary.v2`.
- **`blobs`**: A collection consisting of only one [artifact descriptor](https://github.com/oras-project/artifacts-spec/blob/main/descriptor.md) that refers to a signature envelope.

>    - **`mediaType`**: Defines the media type of signature envelope blob. The supported value is `application/jose+json`

Reviewer: For the media type `application/jose+json`, will `application/vnd.cncf.notary.signature.v2.jws+json` be better?

Author: Added `application/jose+json` because its already registered in [iana](https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/media-types.xhtml). Also, its actually an serialized JWS JSON signature.

Reviewer 2: After re-reading this, the `mediaType` hers is the blob of the signature. We had similar feedback in OCI Artifact conversations to use existing `mediaTypes` when possible. So, `application/jose~json` seems good, particularly as it's already registered with iana.org

- **`subject`**: An artifact descriptor referencing to image manifest that is signed.
- **`annotations`**: This OPTIONAL property contains arbitrary metadata for the artifact manifest. It can be used to store information about the signature.

```
{
 "artifactType": "application/vnd.cncf.notary.v2",
 "blobs": [
   {
     "mediaType": "application/jose+json",
     "digest": "sha256:9834876dcfb05cb167a5c24953eba58c4ac89b1adf57f28f2f9d09af107ee8f0",
     "size": 32654
   }
 ],
 "subject": {
   "mediaType": "application/vnd.oci.image.manifest.v1+json",
   "digest": "sha256:73c803930ea3ba1e54bc25c2bdc53edd0284c62ed651fe7b00369da519a3c333",
   "size": 16724
 },
 "annotations": {

>    "org.cncf.notary.signature.subject": "wabbit-networks.io"

Reviewer 2: Tracking the issue to finalize the annotation details: #103

## Signature Envelope
The Signature Envelope is a standard data structure for creating a signed message. A signature envelope consists of the following components:
* Payload(m): The data that is integrity protected - e.g. container image descriptor.
* Signed attributes(v): The signature metadata that is integrity protected - e.g. signature expiration time, signing time, etc.
* Unsigned attributes(u): This OPTIONAL property represents signature metadata that is not integrity protected - e.g. timestamp, certificates, etc.
* Cryptographic signatures(s): The digital signatures computed on payload and signed attributes.

A signature envelope is `e = {m, v, u, s}` where `s` is signature.

Notary v2 supports [JWS JSON Serialization](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7515) as signature envelope format with some additional constraints but is extensible to support any other signature envelope format.

### Payload
Notary v2 requires Payload to be the [descriptor](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/master/descriptor.md#properties) of the target manifest that is being signed.  
1. Descriptor MUST contain `mediaType`, `digest`, `size` fields.

> 1. Descriptor MAY contain `artifactType` field for artifact manifests, or the `config.mediaType` for `oci.image` based manifests or annotations.

Reviewer: All optional fields can go to the **signed attribtues**.

Author: Technically yes but the idea behind of payload and signed attributes is different. Payload is the actual content we want to sign(integrity protect) while attributes is metadata for the signature or payload and in this case annotation, artifactType or  any other  descriptor data is a payload.

Author: Addressed

Notary v2 uses JWS JSON Serialization for the signature envelope with some additional constraints on the structure of claims and headers.

Unless explicitly specified as OPTIONAL, all fields are mandatory. Also, there shouldn’t be any additional fields other than ones specified in JWSPayload, ProtectedHeader, and UnprotectedHeader.

**JWSPayload a.k.a. Claims**:
Notary v2 is using one private claim(notary) and two public claims(iat and exp). An example of the claim is described below
```json
{
   "notary": {  
       "subject": {
           "mediaType": "application/vnd.oci.image.manifest.v1+json",
           "digest": "sha256:73c803930ea3ba1e54bc25c2bdc53edd0284c62ed651fe7b00369da519a3c333",
           "size": 16724
       },
       "attributes": {
           "reserved": {
               "key1": "value1",
               "key2": "value2"
               ...
           },
           "custom" : {
               "customKey1": "customValue1",
               "customKey2": "customValue2"
               ...
           }
       }
   },

>    "iat": 0123456789101,

Reviewer: nit: numbers do not start with `0`.

`ASCII(BASE64URL(UTF8(ProtectedHeaders)) ‘.’ BASE64URL(JWSPayload))`
4. Compute the signature on the message constructed in the previous step by using the signature algorithm defined in the corresponding header element: alg.
5. Compute the base64url value of the signature produced in the previous step. This is the value of the signature property used in the signature envelope.

**Signature Envelope**:
The final signature envelope comprises of Claims, ProtectedHeaders, UnprotectedHeaders, and signature.
```json
{
   "payload": "<Base64Url(JWSPayload)>",
   "signatures": [
       {
           "protected": "<Base64Url(ProtectedHeaders)>",
           "header": {
               "timestamp": "<Base64Url(TimeStampToken)>",
               "x5c": ["<Base64(DER(leafCert))>", "<Base64(DER(intermediateCACert))>", "<Base64(DER(rootCert))>"]
           },
           "signature": "Base64Url( sign( ASCII( <Base64Url(JWSPayload)>.<Base64Url(ProtectedHeader)> )))"  
       }
   ]
}
```
If a JWS contains only one signature as above, the JWS can be flattened as

```json
{
   "payload": "<Base64Url(JWSPayload)>",

>    "protected": "<Base64Url(ProtectedHeaders)>"

Reviewer: nit: missing `,` at the EOL.
